I couldn't find any videos on YouTube
about scaling YouTube shorts. Everyone
just seems to be talking about how to
launch a campaign, but they're not
sharing how to actually scale, what they
see work, and the stats that they're
seeing from their experimentation. In
this video, I'm going to cover what I
have seen work personally from scaling
YouTube shorts. If you're new to the
channel, I'm Subie Perez. I'm the
founder of Ad Conversion. We teach 8,000
plus B2B marketers how to master ads and
manage over $3 million a month in ad
spend for top B2B SAS brands. The first
thing I want to talk about is stats,
some numbers. What are we seeing in
terms of our testing with our clients?
And the first one I want to talk about
is view rates. So view rates for YouTube
shorts compared to 16 by9 instream video
ads. And what we're seeing with YouTube
shorts is the view rates are horrible.
Like we're seeing 4 to 8% average view
rates. Uh this is on top ofunnel
traffic, cold traffic. 4 to 8% it's a
bit higher in remarketing. And when we
compare that with the average view rate
that we see for our 16 by9 instream
videos, closer to 60% for some of our
clients, but the industry benchmark is
around 30%. It just doesn't make sense
to spend that much money on YouTube
shorts on top ofunnel cold traffic, get
a 4 to 8% view rate when we're getting
60% on average for our clients going
after the same audience but with a
different ad format. The second thing
too, there's like a bit of a myth where
people believe YouTube shorts are
cheaper than actual instream video ads.
We personally have not seen this from
our testing in our data. So for context,
like CPMs we're seeing are relatively
the same. When we compare shorts against
instream 16 by9 video ads for cult
traffic. In addition to that,
clickthrough rates are relatively the
same as well, give or take, depending on
how well we do with the creative format.
But in terms of the cost of the
placement in the media, we're not seeing
real differences in terms of cost per
thousand impressions with the CPMs and
the view rates are much lower compared
to what we're able to do with a 16x9
placement. So with that, that takes me
to my second point, which is if you're
going to run YouTube shorts, I highly
recommend that you do it only in
remarketing. My opinion on this might
change in the future, but at the time of
this recording, I would recommend only
running YouTube shorts in remarketing.
The reason why is because the most
powerful format for YouTube ads is the
16x9 instream video placement. You're
only getting charged if somebody watches
30 seconds of the video. The placement
allows you more than 60 seconds in
length. That's another downside with
YouTube Shorts is you can only have
videos up to 60 seconds right now at the
time of recording. So 60 seconds doesn't
give you as much time compared to an
instream video ad. I can go much longer
than 60 seconds and be able to
communicate my entire value proposition
and a really a coherent statement. So
when it comes to remarketing, I just
want to doodle out some examples here of
YouTube short ads that you should
potentially take into consideration. So
the first thing here is essentially, you
know, we're kind of have like a a
two-step approach here. So step number
one is you want to cast a wide net,
right? Uh, and by the way, bear with my
my hand drawings here, but basically
step one is like you're casting a wide
net, right? So, this is prospecting,
right? You can call this prospecting,
you can call it top offunnel. We in B2B,
we call this the create stage. It
doesn't matter. The point is is you're
casting a wide net. This is really where
we're using those 16 by9 instream
placements. We're really trying to, you
know, build as much brand infinity as
trust as we can, really qualify viewers,
drive lower view rates if we can drive
higher quality views, all of that kind
of stuff. And if you guys want more
context on scaling 16x9 instream ads,
let me know in the comments. And then
here now on the second step, this is
where we do remarketing. That was a
really bad circle. I've got to try that
one again. Okay, let's do it. All right.
I mean, don't don't ask me, but that's a
two. So for the second step now we've
got remarketing. And this is kind of
like what we would call a double or not
a double I would say a two-step funnel.
So or like the one two. So it's like all
right first we get on their radar then
we retarget them. And when it comes to
remarketing there are a few specific
types of ads that we're seeing work well
in terms of creative concepts
specifically for YouTube shorts. The
first one is proof.
Social proof works really well really in
general for remarketing but definitely
with the YouTube shorts ads placement.
So proof this is anything where third
parties are validating or or or giving
or lending credibility to your product
right. So for example this is
testimonials this is case studies this
is you know third like influencers as an
example. So all of this is examples of
how you can get credibility how you can
showcase proof with your YouTube shorts
ads. I'm going to touch on this in my
last point here which is around how do
you actually make good ads because
remember we only have 60 seconds so
we've got to be a bit creative here but
I definitely recommend leveraging proof
in remarketing and testing it with the
YouTube shorts ads format. The other one
as well that we're seeing work really
well and this one I would say is much
more catered to SAS companies and and
B2B and that is product marketing. If
you're watching this right now and
you're in e-commerce, then you can
consider this like demonstrations.
And basically what we're trying to do is
we are trying to educate users on the
problems we solve and how we solve it.
So what this looks like in practice is
these are like use cases. So for
example, we've built our own tool called
Sammy. It's an ad automation platform.
It allows us to build automated
workflows to optimize our ads 24 hours a
day. And that in itself is very vague
and and big, right? like what does that
mean automated workflow? So what we find
work really well is instead of talking
about ad automation as a whole which is
a bit you know everybody has their own
perception of what that means we speak
to specific use cases. So instead of
talking about ad automation as a blanket
statement we'll talk about how you can
set up this workflow to catch ad fatigue
automatically and to get notified when
your ads start to fatigue. or we'll talk
about another workflow where you can
protect your monthly budget and never
worry about overspending. These specific
use cases make it real in your
prospect's mind around how you can
actually help solve their problems. The
other one is demonstrations.
So if possible, you can show like a
quick demonstration. You know, if we're
talking we we by the way we operate in
the B2B and SAS worlds if you're new to
the channel. So my worlds, the examples
I talk about will be primarily from a
B2B and and software perspective. But
just to give some context, if you're
watching this in e-commerce, this could
be like an unboxing as an example. But
essentially for demonstrations, you just
want to give people a look at like what
is it like on the other side. Another
example of this could just be a talking
head video like right now how we're
speaking together today. A talking head
video of how you are speaking through
the capabilities of your product. So,
these are all examples of product
marketing content that you can use
because remember when it comes to
remarketing, especially for B2B and and
SAS, you're playing the long game,
right? Like you don't have the advantage
of short sales cycles like e-commerce.
And if you're watching this and you you
are in e-commerce, well, even though
that you have short sales cycles, you
yourself should also take into advantage
and try to educate people more
holistically on how you can actually
solve their problems with your products
even though you have a short sale cycle.
So, those are the two video types and
creative concepts that I really
recommend that you focus on when it
comes to remarketing and YouTube short.
Just wanted to take a quick second and
say if you're loving this video, you
will absolutely love our free courses at
adconversion.com. You can sign up for
free, seriously free. And you can get
access to our Reddit ad courses, Google
Ads, LinkedIn ads, building a paid media
program, advertising foundations for
B2B. All of our courses are free. We are
trying to build the go-to place in the
world to learn how to run ads and learn
from qualified people and not get ripped
off in the process. If you don't believe
us, you can go to our wall of love here.
You can hear from 8,000 plus V2B
marketers that have taken our courses.
They've landed jobs. They've started
agencies. Like the impact we've had has
been pretty cool and uh would love your
support. And if you're loving this
video, you'll definitely love these
courses. Okay, we are back in the
whiteboard of beauty. So, let's go ahead
and wrap out here talking about the last
thing that we are seeing really move the
needle when it comes to scaling YouTube
shorts ads and that is your actual
creative. This, if you've done any
serious YouTube advertising, you know,
your creative is actually the most
important variable in terms of success
or failure with the platform. And
YouTube shorts ads has no exception to
that. You need great creative. So, I
want to break that down a little bit
more tactically for you to give you a
starting point of when you approach this
because we've already talked about
creative concepts and themes around
proof and product marketing, but I want
to take it a step further just to really
make it clear for you so you can exit
out of this video and you can get to
work in terms of the ads that you're
going to produce. Okay, first things
first is you have 60 seconds. 60
seconds. I hope one day they update
this, but at the time of this recording,
if you're watching this, it's 60
seconds. This is the maximum length of a
YouTube short ad that you can have. And
this doesn't give you a lot of
opportunities to waste time with your
message. Uh, and also the other thing I
want to mention as well is like the
behavior of an audience member who's
scrolling through their YouTube shorts
feed is different from somebody who is
trying to watch a video and the ad is
interrupting them with the true instream
placement, the 16x9. So when you're
dealing with YouTube short viewers, you
have to think of them differently than
when you're thinking about 16 by9
instream. The first one is you have to
understand that they are they have the
shortest attention spans possible,
right? Even more so here. At least with
the instream videos, you have the
blessing of they can't skip the ad until
5 seconds passes. That is not the case
with YouTube shorts. They can swipe and
scroll and get out of your ad as fast as
humanly possible. So what we want to do
is we want to make sure that we get to
the point as fast as possible. So the
first thing of our ad is we want to
focus on the hook. And you want to get
the hook out there in as much as 3
seconds. Like the longest is 3 seconds.
Even better if you can get a 2 seconds,
1 second, but typically it takes about 3
seconds to really form a complete
sentence. So in the hook, because we
don't have the luxury of time, you can't
be vague, you can't be opaque. Like the
hook must call out the specific problem
and this really needs to act like
mosquito repellent where if somebody is
not a good fit, they are not interested
in solving that problem, they are going
to swipe as fast as humanly possible and
move on to the next video. That is what
we want. But if this is relevant to
them, they might give you the benefit of
doubt and continue to watch. So for
example, a hook problem could be for us
for let's say for ad conversion I could
say something like if you are struggling
with rising Google ad costs that is only
specific to a very specific kind of
person. It's only relevant to people who
run ads on Google. If that's you then
you would keep watching. And this is
where when we do creative testing you
really want to focus on the hook more
than anything else. This is getting a
little bit advanced here, but when we do
creative testing, we want to test
multiple variations of our hook and then
keep the rest of the ad the same. This
also allows you to produce more creative
at a faster volume. So, for context, I
might film three to five versions of my
hook and then the next corresponding
sections of my ad remain the same. This
makes it much easier because now I only
need to film 15 seconds worth of videos,
assuming I don't mess up, 3 seconds per
clip, five variations versus filming,
you know, five ads each 60 seconds long.
Now you're talking 5 minutes of work
versus, you know, what I just said
before. So, and that's also assuming
you're not messing up, which let's be
real, like we're we're perfectionists,
right? So, it really just helps save
time. When it comes to the hook, we want
to speak to the problem and be as
specific as possible. One other thing,
I'm I'm babbling here, but I think it's
really important context. And side note,
if you're enjoying this video, please
give it a thumbs up. Like, helps us grow
our channel as a small channel. And if
you like this nuance and this context
and like really going into the the why
versus the how and the nitty-gritty and
the nuance, I truly believe that is what
separates, you know, mastery versus just
getting started. like that speaking to
that depth really matters because once
you understand the foundations and the
root of the tree, you can then
reconstruct it and kind of rebuild and
break the rules and and kind of make
your own path. So bear with me. Okay,
the second part here for our ad is the
actual solution. So because we only have
3 seconds and we have to get to the
point with the problem and calling out
the ICP and making it very clear, now we
want to bridge into the solution. So the
solution is typically going to be from
the four to 50 second mark. This is
going to be the the majority of your
actual video itself. And in the
solution, this is where we really want
to get to the point as fast as possible
and follow some sort of pattern of how
we demonstrate the solution. So for
context, alliteration works really well.
So there are pairs of numbers work.
There are certain pairs of numbers that
just work well. They flow well. They
they connect well in our brain. So for
example, one of them is three steps. So
you can say here are the three steps of
how you solve that problem. And it's
really important especially for all my
B2B people listening to this who have
complex products, long sales cycles, you
name it. Just because you have a very
complex product does not mean you can't
distill it down into three steps. And
even if it's that extreme where you
can't distill the whole product down
into three steps, think about like how
you can distill down the first most
important step of your onboarding as an
example into three steps to solve that
problem or at least get them on their
way. So really important that I find
works best is like having steps to frame
the video. So, okay, like in the Google
Ads example, if you're struggling with
rising cost in Google Ads, here's three
tips on how you can solve that. And then
tip one, tip two, tip three are all
relevant to your product and how you
solve that problem. That's another thing
too that I'll mention is like when
you're doing remarketing like you want
to add value to people and that is where
like having listicles and kind of like
these advtorials work really well where
you're educating people but you're also
plugging your solution as the easy next
step. So not to rant too much more on
this the solution keep it four to 50
seconds. And here I would really
recommend just starting with those lists
and trying to tie it to like tips. You
know, here's how you can solve that.
Frame it in a way that it adds value and
it's perceived as value and it's not
just perceived as like pitching, right?
So, for example, what you don't want to
do is you don't want to say something
like, you know, are you tired of cold
calling and here are three features that
can help you. Like no one's going to
care, right? Are you tired of cold
calling? here's three tips on how you
can make, you know, outbound convert
better. I don't know and you kind of
segue. So, I hope that makes sense.
Moving on is finally the CTA. So, from
here, this is really where we want to
close out the video. So, the last 10
seconds, give or take. This is where we
want to close out the video. We want to
call out the next best step that they
can do. One cool thing you can do with
YouTube shorts specifically as well is
you can link YouTube shorts to long form
videos. So, if you wanted to link them
to a long form video so they can kind of
like dive further into the topic, that's
a possibility. Um, but assuming if
you're using this for direct response,
this is where you want to have a CTA.
You want to have just a quick outro
closing out saying, "Hey, if this sounds
like you, if you're interested in this,
you know, for content sake, we're using
the tip example. We've got 15 more tips
for you just like this one, go ahead and
click that link down below and etc.,
right? or swipe left on your phone to go
to the website, right? And then you can
even show a preview of the website and
say and just opt in and then they can
take the next best step. So that is it.
YouTube short ads definitely is an
opportunity. However, I do think it's a
bit overhyped in my experience
personally. Definitely test it. Add it
as like a a tool in your toolkit. But
fundamentally, I would just use it in
remarketing for now. See if my opinion
changes on in the future, but right now
I would just leave it there. And then in
addition to that, I would use it as an
additional touch point in terms of
building overall frequency with the
people that matter and trying to add
more value to them through good
creatives, really focusing on testing
those hooks, doing different iterations,
and over time seeing the performance for
yourself. Hope this video was valuable.
Be sure to give this video a thumbs up.
Really helps us grow our reach as a
small channel. And subscribe so you can
be notified of future videos. When
you're ready, check out adconversion.com
and join our community of 8,000 plus B2B
marketers and master ads with our free
courses.